1. The first code 'circle.py' takes in a constant linear and constant angular velocity to make the turlesim move in a circle. These velocities are part of the Twist message that consists of linear and angular velocities in x,y and z axis respectively. 

2. The second code 'square_openloop.py' makes the turtle to move in a square with starting and finishing coordinates being the same. It creates a 2x2 units square with a linear velocity of 0.2 and 0.2 rad/s angular velocity. It utilizes the move and rotate function to facilitate this.The move function takes in speed, distance to make the turtlebot move and a boolean value. Similarly, the rotate function takes in angular speed, the rotation of the turtlesim and a boolean called clockwise. All of these functions are then passed in the square_openloop function alternately so as to make the turtlesim move in a square.

3. The third code 'square_closedloop.py' makes the turtle to move in straight path following the coordinates (8,5) -> (8,8) -> (8,5) with velocity control. The turtle moves to (5,5) initially to follow the straight line of 3x3 units of square. When we launch the turtlesim, it first opens with the robot at a certain location. To make the robot go to (5,5) from its original launch position, we need to define a movegoal function. This function calculates the linear velocities as the square root of the squared differences of x_goal and current x and, y_goal and current y pose of the turtlesim. Similarly the steering angle or the orientation is calculated as the arctan of the difference between y_goal and current y, x_goal and current_x respectively. The above two functions are multiplied by a factor declared as kp and ki inside the movegoal function. Finally, the setdesiredorientation function allows the turtlesim to return back to its original orientation during launch. This is done by subtracting the desired orientation you want the turtlesim in minus the current yaw orientation of the turtlesim. The difference is passed as an argument inside the rotate function that allows it.  

The screenshots of the trajectories are saved in the folder 'trajectory' in 'assignment_ws' workspace.
